1.1 Introduction
Kenya is the world's 48th largest country by total area with a population of more than 47.6 million people as per Kenya population census 2019. Kenya is the 29th most populous country. As of 2019, Kenya had an estimated GDP of US$99.246 billion and per capita GDP of US$2,010 making it the 62nd largest economy in the world. 
The economy of Kenya is a market-based economy with a liberalised external trade system. One of the key economic sectors is tourism and contributes about 63 percent of GDP. This sector exhibited steady growth becoming the country's principal source of foreign exchange;
Nairobi, Kenya’s capital city, is the country’s economic core. The city has a population of just over 4  million as per the population census of 2019 spread across 696 square kilometres (269 square miles). Nairobi has grown to become the second largest city in the African Great Lakes area, despite being one of youngest cities in the region. Nairobi’s area size - in combination with the total number of residents - brings  the current population density which is now approximately 4,850 residents per square kilometer. (12,600 people living per square mile)  
The food and beverage industry is a segment of the entire tourism industry. The restaurant business in Kenya has been growing rapidly over the last couple of years. Evidence of this is seen by the expansion of major food chains in Kenya. Nairobi is referred to as the region’s foodie hub. One may argue that this is due to a rise in disposable incomes, fast economic growth and a young population. The young population largely characterized by millennials means it’s just not enough to start and run a restaurant “serving meals on a basic white plate”. The market demands includes but not limited to creativity from open kitchens, more wood-less industry, craft beers,  and fusion foods 
In Nairobi, a report highlights, the total spend in restaurants- and eating out more broadly – is anticipated to rise by 77 percent from US$848 million (Sh87.4 billion) in 2017 to US$1.5 billion (Sh154.7 billion) over the next decade. Additionally, restaurant location is a very important factor in customer perception. Restaurants in affluent neighborhoods are generally perceived to offer superior service and customer experience


1.2 Statement of the problem
The demography of Nairobi is interesting to the average entrepreneur or restaurateur. Restaurant segment of the  hospitality industry is influenced greatly by the availability of leisure time and disposable income. In this business segment it is all about location-location-location! This is a key factor in its potential for success. Prime location gives any establishment a competitive advantage. A restaurateur would have to consider a location that has constant and predictable foot-traffic in conjunction with the physical amenities that supports the foot-traffic. An entrepreneur or restaurateur hoping to open a restaurant in the Nairobi area has to consider market demand,  clarity of market segmentation they would like to service and the niche they would participate in or occupy. 

1.3 Objectives
For purposes of the Applied Data Science Capstone project, I will look at the possibility of opening a new restaurant in Nairobi city with the primary consideration being the niche of the restaurant.. 
There is limited published public-data on restaurants in Nairobi. Whereas Nairobi is described as the region's foodie hub  the city's  signature niche in the restaurant space is not obvious to the regional or global palate. If a restaurateur wanted to open a  restaurant in the city based on category-popularity, which category of restaurant would they open?

1.4 Significance of the study 
The beneficiaries of the study stretch the length and breadth of the entire participants in the industry. These include;
The government would benefit from this information in informing the regulatory framework from zonal classifications to public health and safety legislation.
Restaurateurs would benefit from this information as they would be able to identify popular  niches which these popular venues service.
Scholars too would benefit from the conclusions drawn herein as I will highlight categorization of restaurants and other scholars would attempt to find the nexus with any other emerging dependent variable.
1.5 Scope of study
This study will be carried out in Nairobi city and will target licensed restaurants.

1.6 Methodology
Methodology will research design, target population, sampling frame, sampling technique and sample size, data collection procedure, data collection instruments and data analysis involved in the whole process of this research.

1.6.1 Research Design
Research design is the conceptual structure within which the research is conducted. I will use a descriptive approach to narrate the data because I will be able to define and describe the observations


1.6.2 Population
The population will be derived from Foursquare API to get the most common category in the city.


1.6.3 Sample frame
A sample frame is a set of information used to identify a sample population. The sample frame will be all establishment categorized as restaurants 5000 metre radius from central location  -1.2832533; 36.8172449 using foursquare API

1.7 Data analysis and presentation
I will use  GitHub repository, which will have the following components:  Nairobi city with corresponding latitude and longitude information
I will use the python folium library to visualize geographic details of the city, five thousand meters radius from the centre of the city. I used latitude and longitude values to get the visual as below

1.7.1 Exploratory data analysis
50 venues were returned by Foursquare.The following characteristics were useful in this analysis:: name, category, distance from central point, latitude and longitude.



1.8 Discussion
The histograms on the pair plot allows us to see the distribution of a variable whereas the scatter plots shows us the relationships or lack thereof between two variables.
I observe that there is a high concentration of restaurants within two hundred and fifty metres radius of the centre. 
It is seen that there is a concentration of restaurants between latitude -1.28 and -1.29 
It is shown that there is a concentration of restaurants between longitudes 36.815 and 36.820


Box plot was the most suitable visualization of distribution in restaurants. Below shows the average distance from the centre where restaurants are concentrated in addition to latitude and longitude. We also see the quartile ranges and outliers especially on the distance variable. 






Below is a map of nairobi. The full- red marker represents the central point whereas the blue markers represent restaurants returned by foursquare











50 venues were returned by Foursquare.  Based on this limited result of venues and patterns observed, agglomerative clustering will be used based on its ability to summarize data, ease of use and implementation to attempt to explain the observations with distance metric being euclidean and linkage parameter being ward

1.9 Conclusion
Restaurant segment of the  hospitality industry is influenced greatly by the availability of leisure time and disposable income. In this business segment it is all about location-location-location! An entrepreneur or restaurateur hoping to open a restaurant in the Nairobi area has to consider market demand and  clarity of market segmentation they would like to service and the niche they would participate in or occupy. It is quite interesting to see the concentration of restaurants in relation to distance from the centre. Restaurateurs can look further into the identified clusters and analyse  the factors favouring restaurants in the clusters identified whereas city planners and managers  to ensure adequate amenities and infrastructure that will support these businesses.
